Update the keyboard guidelines (#4832)
qmk/qmk_firmware: docs/hardware_keyboard_guidelines.md

Valid Examples:

* `412_64`
* `chimera_ortho`
* `clueboard/66/rev3`
* `planck`
* `v60_type_r`

## Sub-folders

QMK uses sub-folders both for organization and to share code between revisions of the same keyboard. You can nest folders up to 4 levels deep:

    qmk_firmware/keyboards/top_folder/sub_1/sub_2/sub_3/sub_4

If a sub-folder has a `rules.mk` file it will be considered a compilable keyboard. It will be available in QMK Configurator and tested with `make all`. If you are using a folder to organize several keyboards from the same maker you should not have a `rules.mk` file.

Example:

Clueboard uses sub-folders for both purposes, organization and keyboard revisions.

* [`qmk_firmware`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master)
  * [`keyboards`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards)
    * [`clueboard`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard)  &larr; This is the organization folder, there's no `rules.mk` file
      * [`60`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/60)  &larr; This is a compilable keyboard, it has a `rules.mk` file

>       * [`66`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66) &larr; This is also compilable- it uses `DEFAULT_FOLDER` to specify `rev3` as the default revision

Reviewer: This needs to be updated because `clueboard/66` doesn't have a `rules.mk` file anymore.

        * [`rev1`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev1) &larr; compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev1`
        * [`rev2`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev2) &larr; compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev2`

>         * [`rev3`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev3) &larr; compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev3` or `make clueboard/66`

Reviewer: This needs updating for the same reason as above.

```suggestion
        * [`rev3`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev3) &larr; compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev3`
```

There's also `rev4` now.

# QMK Keyboard Guidelines

> Since starting QMK has grown by leaps and bounds thanks to people like you who contributed to creating and maintaining our community keyboards. As we have grown we have discovered some patterns that work well, and ask that you conform to them to make it easier for other people to make use of your hard work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since starting, QMK has grown by leaps and bounds thanks to people like you who contributed to creating and maintaining our community keyboards. As we've grown, we've discovered some patterns that work well, and we ask that you conform to them to make it easier for other people to benefit from your hard work.
```
Add punctuation and change wording a bit to reduce repetition.

> Since starting QMK has grown by leaps and bounds thanks to people like you who contributed to creating and maintaining our community keyboards. As we have grown we have discovered some patterns that work well, and ask that you conform to them to make it easier for other people to make use of your hard work.

Reviewer 2: Good one; added `contribute` to my suggestion below.

## Naming Your Keyboard/Project

> All keyboard names are in lower case, consisting only of letters, numbers, and underscore (`_`). Names may not begin with an underscore. Forward slash (`/`) is used as a sub-folder separation character.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All keyboard names are in lower case, consisting only of letters, numbers and underscores (`_`). Names may not begin with an underscore. Forward slash (`/`) is used as a subdirectory separation character.
```
Use more generic / platform-agnostic terminology. *nix systems don't usually use the term folder, plus it's a GUI concept anyway (a graphical metaphor for a directory), whereas directories are a file system concept, which is what I think we care about here.

Also remove the Oxford comma since I don't think it's generally used anywhere in the docs.

Author: We use the oxford comma all the time, and should prefer it.

Much to my chagrin, we've settled on the term sub-folder here. We use folder instead of directory.

Reviewer 2: Ah, alright. Though I believe the spelling “subfolder” is more common than “sub-folder” (2.26M vs 1.05M Google hits). Wiktionary and the Microsoft Terminology Collection also don't have entries for “sub-folder”, and it's not listed as an alternative spelling for “subfolder” either. So I think the more common spelling should be used.

> The names `test`, `keyboard`, and `all` are reserved for make commands and may not be used as a keyboard or subfolder name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The names `test`, `keyboard`, and `all` are reserved for make commands and may not be used as a keyboard or subdirectory name.
```

Valid Examples:

* `412_64`
* `chimera_ortho`
* `clueboard/66/rev3`
* `planck`
* `v60_type_r`

> ## Sub-folders

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Subdirectories
```

> QMK uses sub-folders both for organization and to share code between revisions of the same keyboard. You can nest folders up to 4 levels deep:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
QMK uses subdirectories both for organization and to share code between revisions of the same keyboard. You can nest directories up to four levels deep:
```

    qmk_firmware/keyboards/top_folder/sub_1/sub_2/sub_3/sub_4

> If a sub-folder has a `rules.mk` file it will be considered a compilable keyboard. It will be available in QMK Configurator and tested with `make all`. If you are using a folder to organize several keyboards from the same maker you should not have a `rules.mk` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a subdirectory has a `rules.mk` file, it will be considered a compilable keyboard. It will be available in QMK Configurator and tested with `make all` during CI builds. If you are using a folder to organize several keyboards from the same maker, you should not have a `rules.mk` file.
```

Example:

> Clueboard uses sub-folders for both purposes, organization and keyboard revisions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clueboard uses subdirectories for both purposes: organization and keyboard revisions.
```

* [`qmk_firmware`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master)
  * [`keyboards`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards)

>     * [`clueboard`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard)  &lt;-- this is the organization folder, no `rules.mk` file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * [`clueboard`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard)  ← This is the organization directory, so there's no `rules.mk` file.
```
`&larr;` is fine too.

>       * [`60`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/60)  &lt;-- this is a compilable keyboard, it has a `rules.mk` file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * [`60`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/60)  ← This is a compilable keyboard, it has a `rules.mk` file.
```

>       * [`66`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66)  &lt;-- this is also compilable, it uses `DEFAULT_FOLDER` to specify `rev3` as the default revision

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      * [`66`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66) ← This is also compilable; it uses `DEFAULT_FOLDER` to specify `rev3` as the default revision.
```

>         * [`rev1`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev1)  &lt;-- compilable, `make clueboard/66/rev1`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * [`rev1`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev1) ← Compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev1`.
```

Author: Sentence fragments don't get periods or capital letters.

>         * [`rev2`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev2)  &lt;-- compilable, `make clueboard/66/rev2`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * [`rev2`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev2) ← Compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev2`.
```

>         * [`rev3`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev3)  &lt;-- compilable, `make clueboard/66/rev3` and `make clueboard/66`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * [`rev3`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/tree/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev3) ← Compilable: `make clueboard/66/rev3` or `make clueboard/66`.
```

> ## Keyboard Folder Structure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Keyboard Directory Structure
```

> Your keyboard should be located in `qmk_firmware/keyboards/` and the directory name should be your keyboard's name as described in the previous section. Inside this directory should be several files:

Reviewer 2: Yep, directory is good 😄

> * `readme.md`

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this list contain `info.json` as well?

Reviewer: @drashna Let's be real: we all know I'm gonna verify all the info.json files and keyboard additions after they go in anyway.

Author: Yeah, it should and I've added that. 

@noroadsleft We appreciate everything you do, and this is an attempt to keep your pile of potential work to a size that resembles Mt. Hamilton, not Mt. Shasta. :D

* `config.h`
* `rules.mk`
* `<keyboard_name>.c`
* `<keyboard_name>.h`

### `readme.md`

> All projects need to have a `readme.md` file that explains what the keyboard is, who made it, where it is available, and links to more information. Please follow the [published template](documentation_templates.md#keyboard-readmemd-template).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All projects need to have a `readme.md` file that explains what the keyboard is, who made it and where it's available. If applicable, it should also contain relevant links, such as the maker's website. Please follow the [published template](documentation_templates.md#keyboard-readmemd-template).
```

### `config.h`

> All projects need to have a `config.h` file to set things like the processor type, bootloader, USB VID/PID, and other default settings. In general you should use this file to set reasonable defaults for your keyboard that will always work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All projects need to have a `config.h` file to set things like the processor type, bootloader, USB VID/PID, as well as some default settings. In general, you should use this file to set reasonable defaults for your keyboard that will always work.
```
The original wording implies that the processor type and bootloader are default settings and, as such, that they can be changed.

Reviewer: `config.h` doesn't designate the processor type or bootloader; those are in `rules.mk`.

### `rules.mk`

> The prescence of this file means this folder is a keyboard target, and can be used in make commands. This is where you setup the build environment for your keyboard and configure the default set of features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The presence of this file means that the directory is a keyboard target and can be used in make commands. This is where you set up the build environment for your keyboard and configure the default set of features.
```
Fix typo, use verb form of setup.

Author: This is an introduction, I don't want to overload people with information yet.

### `<keyboard_name.c>`

> This is where you will write custom code for your keyboard. Typically you will write code to initialize and interface with the hardware in your keyboard. If your keyboard consists of only a key matrix with no LEDs, speakers, or other auxillary hardware this file can be blank.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is where you will write custom code for your keyboard. Typically you will write code to initialize and interface with the keyboard's hardware. If your keyboard consists of only a key matrix with no LEDs, speakers or other auxillary hardware, this file can be blank.
```
Reduce repetition, fix commas.

The following functions are typically defined in this file:

* `void matrix_init_kb(void)`
* `void matrix_scan_kb(void)`
* `bool process_record_kb(uint16_t keycode, keyrecord_t *record)`
* `void led_set_kb(uint8_t usb_led)`

### `<keyboard_name.h>`

> This file is used to define the matrix for your keyboard. You should define at least one CPP macro named `LAYOUT` which translates an array into a matrix representing your switch matrix. If it's possible to build your keyboard with multiple layouts you may define additional macros.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This file is used to set your keyboard's key matrix. You should define at least one C macro named `LAYOUT` that translates an array into a matrix representing the physical switch matrix of your board. See [here](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/blob/master/keyboards/clueboard/66/rev3/rev3.h#L6-L50) for an example. If it's possible to build your keyboard with multiple layouts, you may define additional macros.
```
Reduce repetition, add link to example.

> When defining multiple layouts you should have a base layout, named `LAYOUT`, that supports all possible switch positions on your matrix, even if that layout is impossible to build physically. This is the macro you should use in your `default` keymap. You should then have additional keymaps named `default-<layout>` that use your other layout macros. This will make it easier for people to use the layouts you define.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When defining multiple layouts, you should have a base layout, named `LAYOUT`, that supports all possible switch positions on your matrix, even if that layout is impossible to build physically. This is the macro you should use in your `default` keymap. You should then have additional keymaps named `default-<layout>` that use your other layout macros. This will make it easier for people to use the layouts you define.
```
Just a comma.

> Layout macro names are entirely lowercase, except for the word `LAYOUT` at the front.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Apart from the the word `LAYOUT` at the front, layout macro names should be lowercase, with words separated by underscores. For example: `LAYOUT_planck_mit`.
```

Reviewer: Planck rev6 breaks the lowercase-only rule, because Jack wants the name for `LAYOUT_planck_mit` to be `LAYOUT_planck_1x2uC` (for Single 2u key, Centered).

I think this will need to be rephrased. OLKB Subatomic to my knowledge is going to have a similar naming scheme.

Reviewer 2: Replaced “should be” with “are usually” and used a different example.

Author: I've talked to Jack about this and he's going to use `LAYOUT_ planck_1x2u_c` there.

> As an example, if you have a 60% PCB that supports ANSI and ISO you might define the following layouts and keymaps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As an example, if you have a 60% PCB that supports ANSI and ISO, you might define the following layouts and keymaps:
```

> | Layout Name | Keymap Name | Description |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Layout name | Keymap name  | Description                              |
```

Author: Title Case is entirely appropriate in titles.

Reviewer 2: Alright, I'm okay with either 👍

> |-------------|-------------|-------------|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|-------------|--------------|------------------------------------------|
```

Author: The header separator should be the same length as the header, not the first line. It's tedious to keep up with otherwise.

> | LAYOUT | default | A keymap that supports both ISO and ANSI |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| LAYOUT      | default      | A keymap that supports both ISO and ANSI |
```

Author: It's tedious to keep whitespace like that up. Most of the time our tables have minimal whitespace.

Reviewer 4: > Most of the time our tables have minimal whitespace.

Have you seen the keycode tables? :P

> | LAYOUT_ansi | default-ansi | An ANSI layout |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| LAYOUT_ansi | default-ansi | A keymap for ANSI layouts                |
```

> | LAYOUT_iso | default-iso | An ISO layout |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| LAYOUT_iso  | default-iso  | A keymap for ISO layouts                 |
```
Align table columns visually.

## Image/Hardware Files

> In an effort to keep the repo size down, we're no longer accepting images of any format in the repo, with few exceptions. Hosting them elsewhere (such as <https://imgurcom>) and linking them in the `readme.md` is the preferred method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In an effort to keep the repo size down, we're no longer accepting images of any format, with few exceptions. Hosting them elsewhere (such as <https://imgur.com>) and linking them in the `readme.md` is preferred.
```
Fix link, add comma.
